---
title: "Alpha_investing_code"
author: "Lathan Liou"
date: "10/14/2020"
output: 
html_document:
  self_contained: no
---




 
<h2>Alpha-investing for online FDR control</h2>  <h3>Description</h3>  <p>Implements a variant of the Alpha-investing algorithm of Foster and Stine (2008) that guarantees FDR control, as proposed by Ramdas et al. (2018). This procedure uses SAFFRON's update rule with the constant <i>&lambda;</i> replaced by a sequence <i>&lambda;_i = &alpha;_i</i>. This is also equivalent to using the ADDIS algorithm with <i>&tau; = 1</i> and <i>&lambda;_i = &alpha;_i</i>. </p>   <h3>Usage</h3>  <pre> Alpha_investing(   d,   alpha = 0.05,   gammai,   w0,   random = TRUE,   date.format = "%Y-%m-%d" ) </pre>   <h3>Arguments</h3>  <table summary="R argblock"> <tr valign="top"><td><code>d</code></td> <td> <p>Either a vector of p-values, or a dataframe with three columns: an identifier (&lsquo;id&rsquo;), date (&lsquo;date&rsquo;) and p-value (&lsquo;pval&rsquo;). If no column of dates is provided, then the p-values are treated as being ordered sequentially with no batches.</p> </td></tr> <tr valign="top"><td><code>alpha</code></td> <td> <p>Overall significance level of the FDR procedure, the default is 0.05.</p> </td></tr> <tr valign="top"><td><code>gammai</code></td> <td> <p>Optional vector of <i>&gamma;_i</i>. A default is provided with <i>&gamma;_j</i> proportional to <i>1/j^(1.6)</i>.</p> </td></tr> <tr valign="top"><td><code>w0</code></td> <td> <p>Initial &lsquo;wealth&rsquo; of the procedure, defaults to <i>&alpha;/2</i>. Must be between 0 and <i>&alpha;</i>.</p> </td></tr> <tr valign="top"><td><code>random</code></td> <td> <p>Logical. If <code>TRUE</code> (the default), then the order of the p-values in each batch (i.e. those that have exactly the same date) is randomised.</p> </td></tr> <tr valign="top"><td><code>date.format</code></td> <td> <p>Optional string giving the format that is used for dates.</p> </td></tr> </table>   <h3>Details</h3>  <p>The function takes as its input either a vector of p-values or a dataframe with three columns: an identifier (&lsquo;id&rsquo;), date (&lsquo;date&rsquo;) and p-value (&lsquo;pval&rsquo;). The case where p-values arrive in batches corresponds to multiple instances of the same date. If no column of dates is provided, then the p-values are treated as being ordered sequentially with no batches. </p> <p>The Alpha-investing procedure provably controls FDR for independent p-values. Given an overall significance level <i>&alpha;</i>, we choose a sequence of non-negative non-increasing numbers <i>&gamma;_i</i> that sum to 1. Alpha-investing depends on a constant <i>w_0</i>, which satisfies <i>0 &le; w_0 &le; &alpha;</i> and represents the initial &lsquo;wealth&rsquo; of the procedure. </p> <p>Further details of the Alpha-investing procedure and its modification can be found in Foster and Stine (2008) and Ramdas et al. (2018). </p>   <h3>Value</h3>  <table summary="R valueblock"> <tr valign="top"><td><code>d.out</code></td> <td> <p> A dataframe with the original data <code>d</code> (which will be reordered if there are batches and <code>random = TRUE</code>), the LORD-adjusted significance thresholds <i>&alpha;_i</i> and the indicator function of discoveries <code>R</code>. Hypothesis <i>i</i> is rejected if the <i>i</i>-th p-value is less than or equal to <i>&alpha;_i</i>, in which case <code>R[i] = 1</code>  (otherwise <code>R[i] = 0</code>).</p> </td></tr> </table>   <h3>References</h3>  <p>Foster, D. and Stine R. (2008). <i>&alpha;</i>-investing: a procedure for sequential control of expected false discoveries. <em>Journal of the Royal Statistical Society (Series B)</em>, 29(4):429-444. </p> <p>Ramdas, A., Zrnic, T., Wainwright M.J. and Jordan, M.I. (2018). SAFFRON: an adaptive algorithm for online control of the false discovery rate. <em>Proceedings of the 35th International Conference in Machine Learning</em>, 80:4286-4294. </p>   <h3>See Also</h3>  <p><code>SAFFRON</code> uses the update rule of Alpha-investing but with constant <i>&lambda;</i>. </p>   <h3>Examples</h3>  <pre> sample.df &lt;- data.frame( id = c('A15432', 'B90969', 'C18705', 'B49731', 'E99902',     'C38292', 'A30619', 'D46627', 'E29198', 'A41418',     'D51456', 'C88669', 'E03673', 'A63155', 'B66033'), date = as.Date(c(rep('2014-12-01',3),                rep('2015-09-21',5),                 rep('2016-05-19',2),                 '2016-11-12',                rep('2017-03-27',4))), pval = c(2.90e-08, 0.06743, 0.01514, 0.08174, 0.00171,         3.60e-05, 0.79149, 0.27201, 0.28295, 7.59e-08,         0.69274, 0.30443, 0.00136, 0.72342, 0.54757))  Alpha_investing(sample.df, random=FALSE)  set.seed(1); Alpha_investing(sample.df)  set.seed(1); Alpha_investing(sample.df, alpha=0.1, w0=0.025)  </pre>   </body></html> 
