---
title: "LOND_code"
author: "Lathan Liou"
date: "9/18/2020"
output: 
html_document:
  self_contained: no
---



 
<h2>LOND: Online FDR control based on number of discoveries</h2>  <h3>Description</h3>  <p>Implements the LOND algorithm for online FDR control, where LOND stands for (significance) Levels based On Number of Discoveries, as presented by Javanmard and Montanari (2015). </p>   <h3>Usage</h3>  <pre> LOND(   d,   alpha = 0.05,   betai,   dep = FALSE,   random = TRUE,   date.format = "%Y-%m-%d",   original = TRUE ) </pre>   <h3>Arguments</h3>  <table summary="R argblock"> <tr valign="top"><td><code>d</code></td> <td> <p>Either a vector of p-values, or a dataframe with three columns: an identifier (&lsquo;id&rsquo;), date (&lsquo;date&rsquo;) and p-value (&lsquo;pval&rsquo;). If no column of dates is provided, then the p-values are treated as being ordered sequentially with no batches.</p> </td></tr> <tr valign="top"><td><code>alpha</code></td> <td> <p>Overall significance level of the FDR procedure, the default is 0.05.</p> </td></tr> <tr valign="top"><td><code>betai</code></td> <td> <p>Optional vector of <i>&beta;_i</i>. A default is provided as proposed by Javanmard and Montanari (2018), equation 31.</p> </td></tr> <tr valign="top"><td><code>dep</code></td> <td> <p>Logical. If <code>TRUE</code>, runs the modified LOND algorithm which guarantees FDR control for <em>dependent</em> p-values. Defaults to <code>FALSE</code>.</p> </td></tr> <tr valign="top"><td><code>random</code></td> <td> <p>Logical. If <code>TRUE</code> (the default), then the order of the p-values in each batch (i.e. those that have exactly the same date) is randomised.</p> </td></tr> <tr valign="top"><td><code>date.format</code></td> <td> <p>Optional string giving the format that is used for dates.</p> </td></tr> <tr valign="top"><td><code>original</code></td> <td> <p>Logical. If <code>TRUE</code>, runs the original LOND algorithm  of Javanmard and Montanari (2015), otherwise runs the modified algorithm  of Zrnic et al. (2018). Defaults to <code>TRUE</code>.</p> </td></tr> </table>   <h3>Details</h3>  <p>The function takes as its input either a vector of p-values, or a dataframe with three columns: an identifier (&lsquo;id&rsquo;), date (&lsquo;date&rsquo;) and p-value (&lsquo;pval&rsquo;). The case where p-values arrive in batches corresponds to multiple instances of the same date. If no column of dates is provided, then the p-values are treated as being ordered sequentially with no batches. </p> <p>The LOND algorithm controls the FDR for independent p-values (see below for the modification for dependent p-values). Given an overall significance level <i>&alpha;</i>, we choose a sequence of non-negative numbers <i>&beta;_i</i> such that they sum to <i>&alpha;</i>. The values of the adjusted significance thresholds <i>&alpha;_i</i> are chosen as follows: </p> <p style="text-align: center;"><i>&alpha;_i = (D(i-1) + 1)&beta;_i</i></p> <p> where <i>D(n)</i> denotes the number of discoveries in the first <i>n</i> hypotheses. </p> <p>A slightly modified version of LOND with thresholds <i>&alpha;_i = max(D(i-1), 1)&beta;_i</i> provably controls the FDR under positive dependence (PRDS condition), see Zrnic et al. (2018). </p> <p>For arbitrarily dependent p-values, LOND controls the FDR if it is modified with <i>&beta;_i / H(i)</i> in place of <i>&beta;_i</i>, where <i>H(j)</i> is the i-th harmonic number. </p> <p>Further details of the LOND algorithm can be found in Javanmard and Montanari (2015). </p>   <h3>Value</h3>  <table summary="R valueblock"> <tr valign="top"><td><code>d.out</code></td> <td> <p> A dataframe with the original data <code>d</code> (which will be reordered if there are batches and <code>random = TRUE</code>), the LOND-adjusted significance thresholds <i>&alpha;_i</i> and the indicator function of discoveries <code>R</code>. Hypothesis <i>i</i> is rejected if the <i>i</i>-th p-value is less than or equal to <i>&alpha;_i</i>, in which case <code>R[i] = 1</code>  (otherwise <code>R[i] = 0</code>).</p> </td></tr> </table>   <h3>References</h3>  <p>Javanmard, A. and Montanari, A. (2015) On Online Control of False Discovery Rate. <em>arXiv preprint</em>, <a href="https://arxiv.org/abs/1502.06197">https://arxiv.org/abs/1502.06197</a>. </p> <p>Javanmard, A. and Montanari, A. (2018) Online Rules for Control of False Discovery Rate and False Discovery Exceedance. <em>Annals of Statistics</em>, 46(2):526-554. </p> <p>Zrnic, T., Ramdas, A. and Jordan, M.I. (2018). Asynchronous Online Testing of Multiple Hypotheses. <em>arXiv preprint</em>,  <a href="https://arxiv.org/abs/1812.05068">https://arxiv.org/abs/1812.05068</a>. </p>   <h3>See Also</h3>  <p><code>LONDstar</code> presents versions of LORD for <em>synchronous</em> p-values, i.e. where each test can only start when the previous test has finished. </p>   <h3>Examples</h3>  <pre> sample.df &lt;- data.frame( id = c('A15432', 'B90969', 'C18705', 'B49731', 'E99902',     'C38292', 'A30619', 'D46627', 'E29198', 'A41418',     'D51456', 'C88669', 'E03673', 'A63155', 'B66033'), date = as.Date(c(rep('2014-12-01',3),                 rep('2015-09-21',5),                 rep('2016-05-19',2),                 '2016-11-12',                 rep('2017-03-27',4))), pval = c(2.90e-08, 0.06743, 0.01514, 0.08174, 0.00171,         3.60e-05, 0.79149, 0.27201, 0.28295, 7.59e-08,         0.69274, 0.30443, 0.00136, 0.72342, 0.54757))  set.seed(1); LOND(sample.df)  LOND(sample.df, random=FALSE)  set.seed(1); LOND(sample.df, alpha=0.1)  </pre>   </body></html> 
